All right, so
I believe your next mission is,
we got this exercise right here,
we're gonna do a few more things.
There's the very simple version
before I did that abstraction.
So ideally counter also takes an initial
count and has a reset button.
So now that you've watched me do it for
a little bit why don't you spend a good,
let's say eight minutes see if you
can get these two tests to pass?
Could you peek in a counter.solution?
You could, should you?
You should not.
If you did need to peek somewhere,
you can look at what I did up here, right?
Or if you need to see that complete file,
that is in my Fun Bucket of things.
Here I actually called the typeof
separately, which is nice,
I should have done that before too.
The other thing that I did
in this version as well and
I should bring over to my file and
I'll talk about real quick before
you do that exercise is we can
also export everything else.
So now I don't ever need to
bring in testing-library/react
when I go into my kinda
smaller baby version of this.
Now this will export everything from react
testing library plus our custom render.
So now we can just use that for
everything and not be like is this one
in testing-library/react and
this one was in my utilities?
Now we just use test utilities and
one of the things you'll see
in the larger app is, and
I like this pattern a lot, is this
test directory in both my tsconfig.
And my vitest.config, you can see that
I say, I can just do test/utilities.
And it looks like it's a third
party dependency, but it's not.
And it is like I get that from anywhere
without having to traverse up and down.
I just do test/utilities, I get
everything from React TensorFlow library,
plus that monkey patched version
of render that I can use.
So now if we want to render
the component with an initial count,
this is very much like what we did before.
To be clear, though, for
those following along,
which is because we talked a little
bit about making the custom render.
What we'll be implementing now
is closer to what's in the file,
counter.extension.tesla.tsx.
This one with our custom renderer
solution is without the custom
render that we just wrote.
So either one of them work,
they both pass.
If you wanna kinda look at the final
results as we live code, but
our implementation is closer
to extension than solution.
Cuz we did things slightly outta order,
cuz I'm live coding and stuff.
Things get a little wild sometimes, cool.
So we can render the component
with an initial count.
And honestly, copying, and
pasting never hurt anyone.
So we can go ahead, and
at this point we give it an initial count.
And you need a gotta love TypeScript.
I mean, theoretically, IntelliSense
would have done it in JavaScript,
it's not important.
And we'll give it, a 4,000.
What's it angry about?
I believe that wants a number.
So then we can go ahead and
type 4000 here, right?
And this test passes, right?
It's just basically a way to get
warmed up with what I did before.
And this one, again with the resetButton,
is a variation on a theme, but
let's do it together.
And now, remember, in this case,
we're not using the custom render,
so we do need to swap that one out.
So we can go ahead and
just do ./test/utilities.
And that utility solution is the one
that I wrote with us together.
So anything generally speaking, if you're
looking for what we're live coating,
the closest approximation
is in those solution files.
Where I have a written version you can use
as well, but I have the one that I wrote.
So at this point we can
render the counter,
I'm gonna give it another
initial count because otherwise,
this comes to our classic problem.
Is zero because my resetButton worked, or
is it zero because my
resetButton didn't work.
[LAUGH] Right,
now I could choose to increment and
that's actually fine test, right?
Because again, you now know with one
test that does all those things.
And maybe someone will choose to lecture
you about how your test should be
isolated, and
you don't have to listen to them, right?
You do what you want, if you find
value in it, have at it, right?
And then we'll say and
one thing that you could do is,
I don't necessarily the before all
because I'm stuck with it every time.
I can't pass arguments to it, but
if I was doing this in of course,
32 tests, hypothetical number.
Could I make a function called setup
where I pass it in a value and
it gives me back some number of
things I know I'm gonna need?
Yeah, that's even easier because then that
setup or whatever you call that function,
you can command click on it and
then jump up to the implementation of it.
First is like a before hook, good luck
finding why it's in ClojureScope, right?
But yeah, so
you could do that if you wanted to.
Maybe you should, there's what's
the rules, which is start with
no abstraction,
then don't over-optimize light too early,
cuz all abstractions sacrifice
some amount clarity.
So then what we wanna do
is we will await const,
that's not how JavaScript works.
User, I don't know why I need to hand
be my own prettier here and that was a
user.click and then we will look for that.
I could do it inline, I could store
it in a variable, it all depends.
Again, if I was using these buttons for
a lot, I might do them all and
might just export an object
that has everything.
Get by role, and we will say
that we're looking for a button and
the name should be reset.
And again,
if you wanna do what I did before,
I can do that way I'm not tied to
the peculiarities of how it's formatted.
What if it was like CSS making
it all caps and it was really.
Whatever, or somebody changes the,
I don't want my test to break
cuz my stuff doesn't work.
I don't want my test to break because
we change our stance on title case.
You know what I mean, so I can do that.
And right now the test pass because we
did find we were successfully clicking
the button.
We did find the current count, right,
the only thing left to
really do is expect that
current count to have
text content of zero.
And our test passes.
Now we know that we can pass in an initial
value, unlike if we were just thinking on
a test coverage perspective, also we
don't know that anything works because
Yeah, I'm just that good that I
spiritually knew it was gonna pass.
Also, I've done this 1000 times,
literally with this component,
this seems off the cuff, but it's not.
So we've got that all in place unlike
if we think about test coverage
perspective and again, break stuff up
into small tests if it is helpful for
you, don't do it because
someone told you to, right?
So we could theoretically
grab that incrementButton.
Instead of passing
an initial count I mean,
you could do it if you wanted to, right?
Let's do the most,
how much can we get away with here?
And I'll treat myself as some white space
in a second user.click incrementButton.
You know what?
Click it again.
And then let's go ahead,
If I've already rendered the thing,
might as well put it up here.
Just have some, [LAUGH] fictitious
version of organization here.
And here, we can go and
we'll go ahead and first of all, expect.
Current count to have text content 67,
what you angry about?
Yeah, can you click something, right?
ResetButton, right?
Now with one test I am
relatively confident in most
of the functionality of this component,
right?
If this was the only one that I did,
I'm morbidly curious how much
test coverage we got out of one test,
in this case, simple components.
Sure, and we'll do a larger thing on
test coverage in a hot minute, but
we can do this and we'll do --coverage.
--runs actually see stuff.
We got to do the two dashes, right?
I have 100% test coverage
from one single test.
Sure, ridiculous component, got it.
Right, but let the people tell you,
you need to break stuff
into a bunch of tiny tests.
It gets the job done,
I have confidence in this.
Say I could refactor this into my heart's
content and know that as much as one
can know anything,
at least the functionality works.
Now I could screw up the CSS on
this in all sorts of untold ways.
Again, 100% test coverage
doesn't really mean anything,
but I think it's a good start.
And we'll play more with
test coverage later.
It'll be kind of an interesting experiment
that we play around with, Dustin.
>> Do you have a preference in general for
selecting DOM elements is it generally
best to just select by role or
you otherwise use the data
ids when it's inconvenient?
>> Yeah, we use a data id when there's
nothing really like a random div
doesn't necessarily have a role, right?
You can select by the text and
something, but
is it the thing you
think it's going to be?
Since we got this test and
since it's running,
let's just get it spinning up again.
Yeah, particularly because this one
doesn't have anything written in
it other than the count,
which I is what I'm asserting.
So I could hypothetically, let's go
look at the component for a second.
Right, let's say I needed that header for
some reason, I'm pretty sure.
When I go off-roading with live coding is
always when the towards the end of the day
is when we know that the best
stuff always happens.
So let's find out how this goes together.
We could say const
header=screen.get ByText,
As angry about that, I wonder if I
need the full string in this case,
because you notice that I can't find it.
So again,
even testing all these things on there-
>> Regex it.
>> Yeah, I'm wondering if that TM
at the end is part of my problem.
All right, so here I can actually find it,
I think it was just maybe
because it was a partial word.
Let's see what happens when I put
the TM back in if that was my issue.
Being clever.
Yeah, so
we'll do the partial match in that case.
I think otherwise I'd
need the full string.
So yeah, you could find it, but in this
case, because I'm trying to assert that
it's zero finding the element that says
zero and making sure that it's zero.
I guess I could say, yo,
something should say 67 on the page and
that would do the trick too,
but this feels the best for me.
But yeah, so we have this header,
and now that's actually adding.
Again, we had 100% test coverage and
that header could have vanished.
So to be clear about 100% test coverage,
it's not as great as it sounds, but
we did get there with one test.
So one thing I will do real
quick is just to show,
we could do something,
I'll just put it up here for a second.
We'll say nourish count equals number.
Cool, colon number rather.
And then we can say, for instance,
return user, currentCount,
IncrementButton, resetButton.
So now if I need to use this with
different situations for the initial
count, I could just use this function,
I will get all the things that I need.
Whatever is helpful for you,
I think makes sense in this point.
One last thing and
then I'll give you a little bonus thing
to play around with as a extra
credit assignment as well.
It'll show up later,
but that's a fun thing.
One thing I just wanted to show you
real quick is I want you to look,
let's just look at the fully
completed extension one.
This is a version of what we just wrote
without my little side quest, and
how it renders a react component, right?
This one, Is how it does the same thing,
but with a svelte component.
The only effective difference
is I'm not writing JSX in here.
I'm just passing it the component class,
and the props go in an object next to it.
So JSX is the only, the tiniest
amount of JSX syntax is the only
real like effective difference between
how I would write these tests for
React and how I'd write these tests for
svelte, vue, what have you.
So if you're worried that, we're talking
a lot about testing React, we're not.
It just happened to be a React component.